README.md, before:

# NinjaOne - A [PowerShell](https://microsoft.com/powershell) module for [NinjaOne](https://NinjaOne.com/) software

[![Azure DevOps Pipeline Status](https://img.shields.io/azure-devops/tests/MSPsUK/NinjaOne/5?style=for-the-badge)](https://dev.azure.com/MSPsUK/NinjaOne/_build?definitionId=1)
[![Azure DevOps Code Coverage](https://img.shields.io/azure-devops/coverage/MSPsUK/NinjaOne/5?style=for-the-badge)](https://dev.azure.com/MSPsUK/NinjaOne/_build?definitionId=1)
[![PowerShell Gallery](https://img.shields.io/powershellgallery/dt/NinjaOne?style=for-the-badge)](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/NinjaOne/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/homotechsual/NinjaOne?style=for-the-badge)](https://mit.license.homotechsual.dev/)
[![GitHub Sponsors](https://img.shields.io/github/sponsors/homotechsual?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/sponsors/homotechsual/)
[![Stable Release](https://img.shields.io/powershellgallery/v/NinjaOne?label=Stable+Release&style=for-the-badge)](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/NinjaOne/)
[![Preview Release](https://img.shields.io/powershellgallery/v/NinjaOne?include_prereleases&label=Preview%20Release&style=for-the-badge)](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/NinjaOne/)

## Who am I?

I am Mikey O'Toole ([@homotechsual](https://github.com/homotechsual)) the founder and director for a UK-based managed IT services provider with a passion for automation and good quality MSP software tools.

## What is this?

This is the code for a [PowerShell](https://microsoft.com/powershell) module for the [NinjaOne](https://NinjaOne.com/) platform.

The module is written for [PowerShell 7](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/whats-new/what-s-new-in-powershell-71?view=powershell-7.1). **It is not compatible with Windows PowerShell 5.1 and never will be.**. This module is licensed under the [MIT](https://mit.license.homotechsual.dev/) license.

## What does it do?

NinjaOne provides a PowerShell wrapper around the NinjaOne API. The module can retrieve and send information to the NinjaOne API.

## Thanks & Credits

This module would not work nearly as well without the support of the NinjaOne team in particular:

- Robert K
- Peter B
- Jonathan C

## Installing

This module is published to the PowerShell Gallery and can be installed from within PowerShell with `Install-Module`

```PowerShell
Install-Module NinjaOne -AllowPrerelease
```

## Current Status

The following API endpoints have not yet been implemented or have been implemented but not tested. They will be added/tested before the first stable release unless otherwise indicated. This list does not contain any `GET` actions - all information can be retrieved - only outstanding commands are `POST`, `PUT`, `PATCH` and `DELETE` actions (`Set-`, `New-` and `Remove-` commands.)

| Endpoint                                            | Status       | Notes                                                             |
| --------------------------------------------------- | ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| /v2/webhook                                         | Not Planned  | This endpoint is not useful in the context of the PS module.      |
| /v2/devices/approval/$mode                          | Not Tested   | Will be tested before 1.0.0.                                      |
| /v2/alert/$uid                                      | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0. Waiting on clarity from NinjaOne.     |
| /v2/ticketing/ticket/$ticketId                      | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |
| /v2/ticketing/ticket                                | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |
| /v2/device/$id/windows-service/$serviceId/configure | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |
| /v2/device/$id/reboot/$mode                         | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |
| /v2/device/$id                                      | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |
| /v2/device/$id/windows-service/$serviceId/control   | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |
| /v2/device/$id/maintenance                          | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |
| /v2/device/$id/script/run                           | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |
| /v2/organization/$id/locations                      | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |
| /v2/organization/$id                                | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |
| /v2/organization/$id/locations/$locationId          | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |
| /v2/organization/$id/policies                       | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |

## Getting Started

The first and probably most important requirement for this module is getting it connected to NinjaOne instance.

### Using Client Credentials (Non-Interactive/Unattended Auth)

#### Creating an API application in NinjaOne

1. In your NinjaOne tenant head to **Configuration** > **Integrations** > **API**.

1. Click on **Client App IDs**  
All going well you should be at `configuration/integrations/api/client`.

1. Click on **Add** to add a new API application.

1. Set the **Application Platform** to *API Services (machine-to-machine)*

1. Enter the **Name**.  
For example *NinjaOne API PS Module*.

1. In the **Redirect URIs** box enter *`https://localhost/`*
This isn't actually used so just set it to plain old `localhost` as above.

1. Set the **Scopes** appropriately. If you want to be able to do anything using the API select all three scopes. Otherwise select them as appropriate for your needs:

    * Monitoring -  *This provides access to most of the `Get-*` commands.*
    * Management - *This provides access to most of the management functionality like agent installer generation.*
    * Control - *This provides access to control settings and make changes to the configuration of your Ninja tenant.*

1. Set the **Allowed Grant Types** to *Client Credentials* and *Refresh Token*.
Authorization code is used for the initial login, the refresh token is used to maintain access on subsequent logins.

1. Click on **Save** and **Complete the MFA challenge**.

1. Store the **Client Secret** securely and close the small popup window.

1. Click on **Close** and on the **Client App IDs** screen copy the **Client ID** for your application. Store this with your **Client Secret**.

### Connecting the PowerShell module to the API

1. Connect to the NinjaOne API with `Connect-NinjaOne`  

    ```PowerShell
    # Splat the parameters - easier to read!
    $ConnectionParameters = @{
        Instance = 'eu'
        ClientID = 'ABCDEfGH-IjKLmnopqrstUV1w23x45yz'
        ClientSecret = 'abc123abc123def456def456ghi789ghi789lmn012lmn012'
        UseClientAuth = $True
    }

    Connect-NinjaOne @ConnectionParameters
    ```

    * Let's disect that last parameter:
        * `UseClientAuth` tells the module that we have we want to use Client Credentials to authenticate and get an access token the module can use to authenticate to NinjaOne.

    ```PowerShell
    # Pass the parameters individually - more familiar!
    Connect-NinjaOne -Instance 'eu' -ClientID 'ABCDEfGH-IjKLmnopqrstUV1w23x45yz' -ClientSecret 'abc123abc123def456def456ghi789ghi789lmn012lmn012' -UseClientAuth
    ```

### Using Authorisation Code (Interactive/Attended Auth)

#### Creating an API application in NinjaOne

1. In your NinjaOne tenant head to **Configuration** > **Integrations** > **API**.

1. Click on **Client App IDs**  
All going well you should be at `configuration/integrations/api/client`.

1. Click on **Add** to add a new API application.

1. Set the **Application Platform** to *Web (PHP, Java, .Net Core, etc.)*

1. Enter the **Name**.  
For example *NinjaOne API PS Module*.

1. In the **Redirect URIs** box enter *`http://localhost:9090/`*
**Make sure the redirect URI ends with a `/`. You can use any port number here just make sure you remember it and adjust the `Connect-NinjaOne` command below appropriately.

1. Set the **Scopes** appropriately. If you want to be able to do anything using the API select all three scopes. Otherwise select them as appropriate for your needs:

    * Monitoring -  *This provides access to most of the `Get-*` commands.*
    * Management - *This provides access to most of the management functionality like agent installer generation.*
    * Control - *This provides access to control settings and make changes to the configuration of your Ninja tenant.*

1. Set the **Allowed Grant Types** to *Authorization Code* and *Refresh Token*.
Authorization code is used for the initial login, the refresh token is used to maintain access on subsequent logins.

1. Click on **Save** and **Complete the MFA challenge**.

1. Store the **Client Secret** securely and close the small popup window.

1. Click on **Close** and on the **Client App IDs** screen copy the **Client ID** for your application. Store this with your **Client Secret**.

#### Connecting the PowerShell module to the API (first time / authorisation code flow)

1. Install the NinjaOne PowerShell module on PowerShell 7.0 or above.  

    ```PowerShell
    Install-Module NinjaOne -AllowPrerelease
    ```

1. Make sure you have all the information you need to connect:

    * Your NinjaOne instance this could be:
        * **EU** `https://eu.ninjarmm.com`
        * **OC** `https://oc.ninjarmm.com`
        * **US** `https://app.ninjarmm.com`
    * Your client ID and client secret.
    * The port you chose for your redirect URI.

1. Connect to the NinjaOne API with `Connect-NinjaOne`  

    ```PowerShell
    # Splat the parameters - easier to read!
    $ConnectionParameters = @{
        Instance = 'eu'
        ClientID = 'ABCDEfGH-IjKLmnopqrstUV1w23x45yz'
        ClientSecret = 'abc123abc123def456def456ghi789ghi789lmn012lmn012'
        Port = 9090
        UseWebAuth = $True
        ShowTokens = $True
    }

    Connect-NinjaOne @ConnectionParameters
    ```

    * Let's disect those last two parameters:
        * `UseWebAuth` tells the module that we need to login to NinjaOne to get an authorisation code. This uses a local `.NET` Kestrel based webserver that listens on the port you pass and handles the reponse that Ninja sends to `http://localhost:9090` - the Redirect URI we configured earlier.
        * `ShowTokens` tells the module that you want to see the generated refresh token - so that when you next authenticate you can use that refresh token instead of logging in again and generating a new set of tokens.

    ```PowerShell
    # Pass the parameters individually - more familiar!
    Connect-NinjaOne -Instance 'eu' -ClientID 'ABCDEfGH-IjKLmnopqrstUV1w23x45yz' -ClientSecret 'abc123abc123def456def456ghi789ghi789lmn012lmn012' -Port 9090 -UseWebAuth -ShowTokens
    ```

### Connecting the PowerShell module to the API (subsequent times / refresh token flow)

1. Connect to the NinjaOne API with `Connect-NinjaOne`  

    ```PowerShell
    # Splat the parameters - easier to read!
    $ReconnectionParameters = @{
        Instance = 'eu'
        ClientID = 'ABCDEfGH-IjKLmnopqrstUV1w23x45yz'
        ClientSecret = 'abc123abc123def456def456ghi789ghi789lmn012lmn012'
        RefreshToken = 'abc123abc123defABCDEfGH-IjKLmnopqrstUV1w-23x45yz456def456ghi789ghi7-89lmn012lmn012'
        UseTokenAuth = $True
    }

    Connect-NinjaOne @ReconnectionParameters
    ```

    * Let's disect those last two parameters:
        * `RefreshToken` this is the token we get from the initial *authorisation code flow* login.
        * `UseTokenAuth` tells the module that we have a refresh token so we want to bypass the authorisation code steps and just exchange it inside the module for an access token the module can use to authenticate to NinjaOne.

    ```PowerShell
    # Pass the parameters individually - more familiar!
    Connect-NinjaOne -Instance 'eu' -ClientID 'ABCDEfGH-IjKLmnopqrstUV1w23x45yz' -ClientSecret 'abc123abc123def456def456ghi789ghi789lmn012lmn012' -RefreshToken 'abc123abc123defABCDEfGH-IjKLmnopqrstUV1w-23x45yz456def456ghi789ghi7-89lmn012lmn012' -UseTokenAuth
    ```

Commit message:

Document ticketing bug in README.

README.md, after:

# NinjaOne - A [PowerShell](https://microsoft.com/powershell) module for [NinjaOne](https://NinjaOne.com/) software

[![Azure DevOps Pipeline Status](https://img.shields.io/azure-devops/tests/MSPsUK/NinjaOne/5?style=for-the-badge)](https://dev.azure.com/MSPsUK/NinjaOne/_build?definitionId=1)
[![Azure DevOps Code Coverage](https://img.shields.io/azure-devops/coverage/MSPsUK/NinjaOne/5?style=for-the-badge)](https://dev.azure.com/MSPsUK/NinjaOne/_build?definitionId=1)
[![PowerShell Gallery](https://img.shields.io/powershellgallery/dt/NinjaOne?style=for-the-badge)](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/NinjaOne/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/homotechsual/NinjaOne?style=for-the-badge)](https://mit.license.homotechsual.dev/)
[![GitHub Sponsors](https://img.shields.io/github/sponsors/homotechsual?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/sponsors/homotechsual/)
[![Stable Release](https://img.shields.io/powershellgallery/v/NinjaOne?label=Stable+Release&style=for-the-badge)](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/NinjaOne/)
[![Preview Release](https://img.shields.io/powershellgallery/v/NinjaOne?include_prereleases&label=Preview%20Release&style=for-the-badge)](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/NinjaOne/)

## Who am I?

I am Mikey O'Toole ([@homotechsual](https://github.com/homotechsual)) the founder and director for a UK-based managed IT services provider with a passion for automation and good quality MSP software tools.

## What is this?

This is the code for a [PowerShell](https://microsoft.com/powershell) module for the [NinjaOne](https://NinjaOne.com/) platform.

The module is written for [PowerShell 7](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/whats-new/what-s-new-in-powershell-71?view=powershell-7.1). **It is not compatible with Windows PowerShell 5.1 and never will be.**. This module is licensed under the [MIT](https://mit.license.homotechsual.dev/) license.

## What does it do?

NinjaOne provides a PowerShell wrapper around the NinjaOne API. The module can retrieve and send information to the NinjaOne API.

## Thanks & Credits

This module would not work nearly as well without the support of the NinjaOne team in particular:

- Robert K
- Peter B
- Jonathan C

## Installing

This module is published to the PowerShell Gallery and can be installed from within PowerShell with `Install-Module`

```PowerShell
Install-Module NinjaOne -AllowPrerelease
```

## Current Status

The following API endpoints have not yet been implemented or have been implemented but not tested. They will be added/tested before the first stable release unless otherwise indicated. This list does not contain any `GET` actions - all information can be retrieved - only outstanding commands are `POST`, `PUT`, `PATCH` and `DELETE` actions (`Set-`, `New-` and `Remove-` commands.)

| Endpoint                                            | Status       | Notes                                                             |
| --------------------------------------------------- | ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| /v2/webhook                                         | Not Planned  | This endpoint is not useful in the context of the PS module.      |
| /v2/devices/approval/$mode                          | Not Tested   | Will be tested before 1.0.0.                                      |
| /v2/alert/$uid                                      | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0. Waiting on clarity from NinjaOne.     |
| /v2/ticketing/ticket/$ticketId                      | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |
| /v2/ticketing/ticket                                | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |
| /v2/device/$id/windows-service/$serviceId/configure | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |
| /v2/device/$id/reboot/$mode                         | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |
| /v2/device/$id                                      | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |
| /v2/device/$id/windows-service/$serviceId/control   | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |
| /v2/device/$id/maintenance                          | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |
| /v2/device/$id/script/run                           | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |
| /v2/organization/$id/locations                      | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |
| /v2/organization/$id                                | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |
| /v2/organization/$id/locations/$locationId          | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |
| /v2/organization/$id/policies                       | Not Added    | Will be added before 1.0.0.                                       |

## Getting Started

The first and probably most important requirement for this module is getting it connected to NinjaOne instance.

### Using Client Credentials (Non-Interactive/Unattended Auth)

#### Creating an API application in NinjaOne

1. In your NinjaOne tenant head to **Configuration** > **Integrations** > **API**.

1. Click on **Client App IDs**  
All going well you should be at `configuration/integrations/api/client`.

1. Click on **Add** to add a new API application.

1. Set the **Application Platform** to *API Services (machine-to-machine)*

1. Enter the **Name**.  
For example *NinjaOne API PS Module*.

1. In the **Redirect URIs** box enter *`https://localhost/`*
This isn't actually used so just set it to plain old `localhost` as above.

1. Set the **Scopes** appropriately. If you want to be able to do anything using the API select all three scopes. Otherwise select them as appropriate for your needs:

    * Monitoring -  *This provides access to most of the `Get-*` commands.*
    * Management - *This provides access to most of the management functionality like agent installer generation.*
    * Control - *This provides access to control settings and make changes to the configuration of your Ninja tenant.*

1. Set the **Allowed Grant Types** to *Client Credentials* and *Refresh Token*.
Authorization code is used for the initial login, the refresh token is used to maintain access on subsequent logins.

1. Click on **Save** and **Complete the MFA challenge**.

1. Store the **Client Secret** securely and close the small popup window.

1. Click on **Close** and on the **Client App IDs** screen copy the **Client ID** for your application. Store this with your **Client Secret**.

*Important*: You cannot currently use Client Credentials authentication to access any of the `ticketing` API endpoints (Tickets/Boards/Contacts) due to a bug on Ninja's side.

### Connecting the PowerShell module to the API

1. Connect to the NinjaOne API with `Connect-NinjaOne`  

    ```PowerShell
    # Splat the parameters - easier to read!
    $ConnectionParameters = @{
        Instance = 'eu'
        ClientID = 'ABCDEfGH-IjKLmnopqrstUV1w23x45yz'
        ClientSecret = 'abc123abc123def456def456ghi789ghi789lmn012lmn012'
        UseClientAuth = $True
    }

    Connect-NinjaOne @ConnectionParameters
    ```

    * Let's disect that last parameter:
        * `UseClientAuth` tells the module that we have we want to use Client Credentials to authenticate and get an access token the module can use to authenticate to NinjaOne.

    ```PowerShell
    # Pass the parameters individually - more familiar!
    Connect-NinjaOne -Instance 'eu' -ClientID 'ABCDEfGH-IjKLmnopqrstUV1w23x45yz' -ClientSecret 'abc123abc123def456def456ghi789ghi789lmn012lmn012' -UseClientAuth
    ```

### Using Authorisation Code (Interactive/Attended Auth)

#### Creating an API application in NinjaOne

1. In your NinjaOne tenant head to **Configuration** > **Integrations** > **API**.

1. Click on **Client App IDs**  
All going well you should be at `configuration/integrations/api/client`.

1. Click on **Add** to add a new API application.

1. Set the **Application Platform** to *Web (PHP, Java, .Net Core, etc.)*

1. Enter the **Name**.  
For example *NinjaOne API PS Module*.

1. In the **Redirect URIs** box enter *`http://localhost:9090/`*
**Make sure the redirect URI ends with a `/`. You can use any port number here just make sure you remember it and adjust the `Connect-NinjaOne` command below appropriately.

1. Set the **Scopes** appropriately. If you want to be able to do anything using the API select all three scopes. Otherwise select them as appropriate for your needs:

    * Monitoring -  *This provides access to most of the `Get-*` commands.*
    * Management - *This provides access to most of the management functionality like agent installer generation.*
    * Control - *This provides access to control settings and make changes to the configuration of your Ninja tenant.*

1. Set the **Allowed Grant Types** to *Authorization Code* and *Refresh Token*.
Authorization code is used for the initial login, the refresh token is used to maintain access on subsequent logins.

1. Click on **Save** and **Complete the MFA challenge**.

1. Store the **Client Secret** securely and close the small popup window.

1. Click on **Close** and on the **Client App IDs** screen copy the **Client ID** for your application. Store this with your **Client Secret**.

#### Connecting the PowerShell module to the API (first time / authorisation code flow)

1. Install the NinjaOne PowerShell module on PowerShell 7.0 or above.  

    ```PowerShell
    Install-Module NinjaOne -AllowPrerelease
    ```

1. Make sure you have all the information you need to connect:

    * Your NinjaOne instance this could be:
        * **EU** `https://eu.ninjarmm.com`
        * **OC** `https://oc.ninjarmm.com`
        * **US** `https://app.ninjarmm.com`
    * Your client ID and client secret.
    * The port you chose for your redirect URI.

1. Connect to the NinjaOne API with `Connect-NinjaOne`  

    ```PowerShell
    # Splat the parameters - easier to read!
    $ConnectionParameters = @{
        Instance = 'eu'
        ClientID = 'ABCDEfGH-IjKLmnopqrstUV1w23x45yz'
        ClientSecret = 'abc123abc123def456def456ghi789ghi789lmn012lmn012'
        Port = 9090
        UseWebAuth = $True
        ShowTokens = $True
    }

    Connect-NinjaOne @ConnectionParameters
    ```

    * Let's disect those last two parameters:
        * `UseWebAuth` tells the module that we need to login to NinjaOne to get an authorisation code. This uses a local `.NET` Kestrel based webserver that listens on the port you pass and handles the reponse that Ninja sends to `http://localhost:9090` - the Redirect URI we configured earlier.
        * `ShowTokens` tells the module that you want to see the generated refresh token - so that when you next authenticate you can use that refresh token instead of logging in again and generating a new set of tokens.

    ```PowerShell
    # Pass the parameters individually - more familiar!
    Connect-NinjaOne -Instance 'eu' -ClientID 'ABCDEfGH-IjKLmnopqrstUV1w23x45yz' -ClientSecret 'abc123abc123def456def456ghi789ghi789lmn012lmn012' -Port 9090 -UseWebAuth -ShowTokens
    ```

### Connecting the PowerShell module to the API (subsequent times / refresh token flow)

1. Connect to the NinjaOne API with `Connect-NinjaOne`  

    ```PowerShell
    # Splat the parameters - easier to read!
    $ReconnectionParameters = @{
        Instance = 'eu'
        ClientID = 'ABCDEfGH-IjKLmnopqrstUV1w23x45yz'
        ClientSecret = 'abc123abc123def456def456ghi789ghi789lmn012lmn012'
        RefreshToken = 'abc123abc123defABCDEfGH-IjKLmnopqrstUV1w-23x45yz456def456ghi789ghi7-89lmn012lmn012'
        UseTokenAuth = $True
    }

    Connect-NinjaOne @ReconnectionParameters
    ```

    * Let's disect those last two parameters:
        * `RefreshToken` this is the token we get from the initial *authorisation code flow* login.
        * `UseTokenAuth` tells the module that we have a refresh token so we want to bypass the authorisation code steps and just exchange it inside the module for an access token the module can use to authenticate to NinjaOne.

    ```PowerShell
    # Pass the parameters individually - more familiar!
    Connect-NinjaOne -Instance 'eu' -ClientID 'ABCDEfGH-IjKLmnopqrstUV1w23x45yz' -ClientSecret 'abc123abc123def456def456ghi789ghi789lmn012lmn012' -RefreshToken 'abc123abc123defABCDEfGH-IjKLmnopqrstUV1w-23x45yz456def456ghi789ghi7-89lmn012lmn012' -UseTokenAuth
    ```
